So we want to build this new directive which works kind of like v-on. So directives and here,
the directive,
well you may choose any name, I will choose customOn as the name and in my customOn directive, I have
my bind hook here, that's my important hook in this case, here I do have my element and my binding,
these are the two arguments I will need to access.
Now let me quickly add a button here
and I will add a method in my object here, methods where I will say clicked and here, I then want to
throw an alert,
so it's not really about the function we execute here,
it is about being able to execute one.
So alert, I was clicked, nice
So this is this function,
now I then want to use my directive, v-customOn like this
and then here I will execute clicked,
so I pass a reference to this function
I then want to execute.
Now therefore, what I can do is here in the element, I want to listen to an event.
Now I'm not specifying which event right now so
let's start simple by forcing that to be a click event.
How can I do this?
Well keep in mind the element is my native html element and therefore of course, I have access to on
click, like this and on click now takes a function which should get executed whenever we click on this
element.
Now what I can do here is I can say execute my binding value of which I know it will be a reference
to a function so I can execute it like a function,
let's see if this works.
If I now go back and hit click me, we see I was clicked, was that easy?
It is.
So that is really how easy it is to get started with this,
now let's fine tune a little bit.
First of all, I'm not really connected to this directive but I want to give this button some styling to
make it look nicer.
Second of all, I don't want to listen to on click here,
instead I want to be able to listen to any event and I want to set up a flexible event listener for
that,
therefore I'm going to copy or comment out that and instead I want to add an event listener here
and how do you add an event listener?
Well we have to specify the type of the event as a string
and then the second argument is the function we want to execute.
Well that's pretty easy, the type is something we can extract because that is simply our binding arg,
now we're not passing this yet but I can pass it with a colon, click for example and then I can here
add the type here, this will be converted to a string,
so it is absolutely fine to use it like this
and then I want to execute my function.
I'm just extracting this in separate constants to make it really clear what happens here,
so this is my binding value which again will be a reference to a function I can execute,
so I'll execute the function here.
Important, don't pass parentheses here,
you want to just pass the reference to the event listener,
javascript will execute this automatically for you once you do click.
Now with this, let me try this modified code, still works like a charm,
awesome.
Now with that, we already finished the exercise,
now I want to try something else and also add a little div here which I give some style,
let's say some width, 100 pixels and a height 100 pixels and so that we can see the background color of
light green,
so this div here. And here I want to listen to mouse enter,
so to do that I'll restructure this into multiple lines, here I want to have my customOn directive and
I want to listen to mouse enter here and execute a function I will pass or I could create mouse
enter for that
and here I simply want to console log mouse entered
and I also want to provide another function, mouseleave and you guess what I want to enter there
or output there, mouse leaved.
Now of course I also will hook this up, so mouse enter here, I want to execute mouse enter,
so this newly created function and I also want to hook up my other listener, v-customOn mouse leave
and execute mouse leave here
and don't put the parentheses here, like this.
Now let's see this in a console,
if I clear this, mouse entered,
mouse leaved, mouse entered, mouse leaved.
So this is really flexible, as you can see,
we can listen to multiple events, you can of course still click here.
That is how this works and how easy it was to create our custom directive which kind of works like
v-on just by using native dom javascript, things like the event listener here, passing an argument and passing
a value, the function which should get executed or the reference to this function. Really short and hopefully
that showed you how you can use the features native elements offer you, native javascript offers you to
build powerful directives.